README.rst, before:

.. |build| image:: http://build.cloudef.pw/build/orbment/master/linux%20x86_64/current/build-status.png
.. _build: http://build.cloudef.pw/build/orbment/master/linux%20x86_64

.. image:: http://cloudef.pw/armpit/loliwm-gh.png
:IRC: #orbment @ freenode
:Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nh_7aqNtrik
:Build: |build|_

OPTIONS
-------

Basic information about what you can currently do in ``orbment``.

+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| ``--prefix MODIFIER`` | Set the modifier to use with the keybinds.     |
|                       | shift, caps, ctrl, alt, logo, mod2, mod3, mod5 |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| ``--log FILE``        | Logs output to specified ``FILE``.             |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+

See `wlc documentation <https://github.com/Cloudef/wlc>`_ for ``wlc`` specific options.

KEYBINDS
--------

Note that these keybinds are temporary until configuration is added.

+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-return``  | Opens a terminal emulator.                           |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-p``       | Opens ``bemenu-run``.                                |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-w``       | Rotates through available layouts.                   |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-l``       | Rotates focus through outputs.                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-j, k``    | Rotates focus through clients.                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-f``       | Toggles fullscreen.                                  |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-[1..n]``  | Activate space.                                      |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-F1..F10`` | Moves focused client to corresponding space.         |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-z, x, c`` | Moves focused client to output 1, 2 and 3            |
|                 | respectively.                                        |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-h``       | Cycles clients.                                      |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-q``       | Closes focused client.                               |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-i, o``    | Shifts the cut of the nmaster layout to shrink or    |
|                 | expand the view.                                     |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-s``       | Takes a screenshot in PNG format.                    |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-esc``     | Quits ``orbment``.                                   |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+

KEYBOARD LAYOUT
---------------

You can set your preferred keyboard layout using ``XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT``.

.. code:: sh

    XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT=gb orbment

RUNNING ON TTY
--------------

If you have ``logind``, you can just run ``orbment`` normally.

Without ``logind`` you need to suid the orbment binary to root user.
The permissions will be dropped runtime.

BUILDING
--------

See `wlc documentation <https://github.com/Cloudef/wlc>`_ for dependencies.

You can build bootstrapped version of ``orbment`` which also includes ``wlc`` with the following steps.

.. code:: sh

    git submodule update --init --recursive           # - initialize and fetch submodules
    mkdir target && cd target                         # - create build target directory
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DSOURCE_WLC=ON .. # - run CMake
    make                                              # - compile

    # You can now run
    ./src/orbment

PACKAGING
---------

For now you can look at the `AUR recipe <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/orbment-git/>`_  for a example.

SIMILAR SOFTWARE
----------------

- `Velox <https://github.com/michaelforney/velox>`_ - Tiling wayland compositor based on swc
- `Waysome <https://github.com/waysome/waysome>`_ - Scriptable wayland compositor

Commit message:

Clarify orbment plugin search path on Debug build

README.rst, after:

.. |build| image:: http://build.cloudef.pw/build/orbment/master/linux%20x86_64/current/build-status.png
.. _build: http://build.cloudef.pw/build/orbment/master/linux%20x86_64

.. image:: http://cloudef.pw/armpit/loliwm-gh.png
:IRC: #orbment @ freenode
:Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nh_7aqNtrik
:Build: |build|_

OPTIONS
-------

Basic information about what you can currently do in ``orbment``.

+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| ``--prefix MODIFIER`` | Set the modifier to use with the keybinds.     |
|                       | shift, caps, ctrl, alt, logo, mod2, mod3, mod5 |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| ``--log FILE``        | Logs output to specified ``FILE``.             |
+-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+

See `wlc documentation <https://github.com/Cloudef/wlc>`_ for ``wlc`` specific options.

KEYBINDS
--------

Note that these keybinds are temporary until configuration is added.

+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-return``  | Opens a terminal emulator.                           |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-p``       | Opens ``bemenu-run``.                                |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-w``       | Rotates through available layouts.                   |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-l``       | Rotates focus through outputs.                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-j, k``    | Rotates focus through clients.                       |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-f``       | Toggles fullscreen.                                  |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-[1..n]``  | Activate space.                                      |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-F1..F10`` | Moves focused client to corresponding space.         |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-z, x, c`` | Moves focused client to output 1, 2 and 3            |
|                 | respectively.                                        |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-h``       | Cycles clients.                                      |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-q``       | Closes focused client.                               |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-i, o``    | Shifts the cut of the nmaster layout to shrink or    |
|                 | expand the view.                                     |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-s``       | Takes a screenshot in PNG format.                    |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+
| ``mod-esc``     | Quits ``orbment``.                                   |
+-----------------+------------------------------------------------------+

KEYBOARD LAYOUT
---------------

You can set your preferred keyboard layout using ``XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT``.

.. code:: sh

    XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT=gb orbment

RUNNING ON TTY
--------------

If you have ``logind``, you can just run ``orbment`` normally.

Without ``logind`` you need to suid the orbment binary to root user.
The permissions will be dropped runtime.

BUILDING
--------

See `wlc documentation <https://github.com/Cloudef/wlc>`_ for dependencies.

You can build bootstrapped version of ``orbment`` which also includes ``wlc`` with the following steps.

.. code:: sh

    git submodule update --init --recursive           # - initialize and fetch submodules
    mkdir target && cd target                         # - create build target directory
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DSOURCE_WLC=ON .. # - run CMake
    make                                              # - compile

    # You can now run
    ./src/orbment

If built in Debug mode, ``./plugins`` is added to plugin search paths, and you can run ``orbment`` straight
from the build directory and it will find the core plugins. This is useful for testing development version,
bootstrapping or developing plugins.

PACKAGING
---------

For now you can look at the `AUR recipe <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/orbment-git/>`_  for a example.

SIMILAR SOFTWARE
----------------

- `Velox <https://github.com/michaelforney/velox>`_ - Tiling wayland compositor based on swc
- `Waysome <https://github.com/waysome/waysome>`_ - Scriptable wayland compositor
